.. _tutorial_reference:

============
Tutorial
============

This tutorial guides you trough the first steps with APPIO.
Before we begin, you need to install APPIO on a fully updated Debian-Linux. In this example we use Ubuntu. An OPC UA front end client like UA Expert by Unified Automation is recommended for testing purposes.


****************************
Creating a new APPIO project
****************************

The First Step is to create a new APPIO project. Please create a new folder somewhere on your harddisk and open the terminal inside of the folder an execute:

.. code-block:: bash

   appio new opcuaapp -n appiotutorial -t Server -u 127.0.0.1 -p 3000 --nocert


If this was succesfull, appio responds with:

.. code-block:: bash

   An opcuaapp with name 'appiotutorial' was successfully created!


When APPIO executes the new command, it creates everything necessary for the opcuaapp. In this case this means the basic source code for an OPC UA Server on the local network listenning on port 3000.
If no user defined information-model is chosen, APPIO will use a default one with a temperature node for testing purposes.

.. note:: APPIO is stateless. This means it is possible to execute the commands without any certain order.


***************************
Building the APPIO project
***************************

It is time to build the project. Use the APPIO build command like this.

.. code-block:: bash

   appio build -n appiotutorial

APPIO builds the project now. You can see the build process inside the terminal.

After a succesfull build, APPIO responds with:

.. code-block:: bash

   Build 'appiotutorial' success! 


****************************
Publishing the APPIO project
****************************

Next step: publishing the opcuaapp. The publish command copies the binaries of the opcuaapp into a newly created subdirectroy named publish.

.. code-block:: bash

   appio publish -n appiotutorial


If the publishing was succesfull, APPIO responds the usual way:

.. code-block:: bash

   Publish 'appiotutorial' success!


***************************
Deploying the APPIO project
***************************

The deploying command puts the opcuaapp inside a debian package.

Execute:

.. code-block:: bash
  
   appio deploy -n appiotutorial

Result:

.. code-block:: bash
   
   Deploy 'appiotutorial' success!  

Please install the debian package now. You will find it inside the deploy folder of your APPIO project.

***************************
Starting the OPC UA server
***************************

To start the OPC UA server generated by APPIO, execute:

.. code-block:: bash

   server-app   

The will start the server and you can read the default node on the server with OPC UA client.

.. note:: You can close the server any time with 'ctrl + c'
